---
layout: post
title:  "why?"
date:   2024-01-05 19:09:00 -0500
categories: 
---
why do i write?

i suppose i want to leave some trace of my existence.

maybe it’s better to send these ideas into the digital abyss than to leave them dancing around between neurons.

some say that writing is the most powerful tool we have. any form of communication can change the world, but what makes writing different from the others?

these mostly stationary figures come to life as their shapes are beamed from a page or screen into our organic light receptors and branded into this chemical reaction we call consciousness. perhaps verbal communications are just as powerful; after all, the likelihood that a person will receive some visual communication at the subconscious level seems lower compared to sonic communication.

we have examples of both. advertisers have placed cues in film media that were imperceptible at the conscious level yet effective at a subconscious level. we can also process sound at a subconscious level, so the score appears to be tied at 1-1. we need a tie breaker. which of these media would affect a sleeping target? has anyone ever tried communicating with the subconscious of a sleeping subject? visual communication at this level seems highly improbable, but auditory communication might just work.

maybe the written word is powerful because it’s not a singular medium at all, but a fusion of multiple media. we don’t seem to think of reading as a sort of fusion, but it is. we usually start by learning verbal communication through repetition. eventually your brain will start matching patterns of sound waves to other stimuli, often including visual. but reading is not quite like listening or watching. reading involves watching as the eyes scan the objects ahead and listening as the brain converts these symbols to equivalent sounds.

this process is particularly beautiful, because it allows for a certain type of thought. this kind of thought is specific enough to lead readers to a common conclusion, yet flexible enough to allow readers to color in the shape and outlines along the way. the book is always better than the movie, because your mind naturally molds the thoughts collected on paper to the shape of your personal experiences and fantasies. this idea proves that you are the true source of the beauty you experience here; your decision (whether conscious or unconscious) to choose joy or awe in that moment authorizes and endorses the satisfaction you feel. don’t forget to be thankful for even the tiny and seemingly insignificant moments that maybe no one else knows about, those moments that you and your inner beauty brought life and emotion into that little hideout in space-time called your mind.